# object_detection
A visual object detection system
You’ve been tasked to implement a prototype of a visual object detection system for a customer. 

The task is to find a location of a phone dropped on the floor from a single RGB camera image. 

The customer has only one type of phone he is interested in detecting.

Consider a normalized XY-coordinate system for an image. 
Left-top corner of the image is defined as (x, y) = (0, 0), 
left-bottom as (x, y) = (0, 1), 
right-top as (x, y) = (1, 0), and finally
right-bottom corner as (x, y) = (1, 1). 

Your “phone detector” has to find normalized coordinates of the center of the phone. 

Every image contains a phone.

there is a small labeled dataset for you. 
A dataset consists of approximately 100 jpeg images of the floor from the factory building with a phone on it. 
There is a file named labels.txt that contains normalized coordinates of a phone for each picture.

Each line of the labels.txt is composed of img_path , x , y separated by spaces:
img_path , x (coordinate of the phone), y (coordinate of the phone)

Here is an example of the first 3 lines from labels.txt:
51.jpg 0.2388 0.6012
95.jpg 0.2551 0.3129
84.jpg 0.7122 0.7117

The images and labels.txt are in the ‘ find_phone ’ folder in the archive attached to this
description.

Submission form and evaluation criteria:

The customer held out 8 images with similar statistics to the training set and is going to
test your phone detector on them. The customer has an automated script for testing your phone
detector. 

Please submit 2 executable python2.7 scripts:

1) train_phone_finder.py takes a single command line argument which is a path to a
folder with labeled images and labels.txt that has been attached to this
description. This script may generate any artifacts you want in the current folder.
Here is what a terminal command will look like:

> python train_phone_finder.py ~/find_phone

2) find_phone.py takes a single command line argument which is a path to the jpeg
image to be tested. This script may use data in the local folder previously
generated by train_phone_finder.py . This script has to print the normalized
coordinates of the phone detected on this test image in the format shown below.
Here is what a terminal command will look like. Please, notice space separated
float numbers on a single line without parentheses (!):

> python find_phone.py ~/find_phone_test_images/51.jpg

0.2551 0.3129
You may submit any other data or library code in the same folder with these two scripts.
We understand that the labeled dataset is quite small and that certain machine learning
methods will not work reliably with such a small dataset. Therefore, you are allowed to use
absolutely any(!) method for detecting phone positions that you feel is suited to the problem.
You are allowed to use any web resources or other materials like publicly available code
samples. For example, you can use any state-of-art method that you are aware about. You may
use any python2.7 libraries provided they can be installed via pip package manager, additionally
you may use opencv .
A phone is considered to be detected correctly on a test image if your output is within a
radius of 0.05 (normalized distance) centered on the phone. Perfect detection performance is
not the main goal of this test. For this prototype, your algorithm is expected to detect a phone
correctly on 4 out of the 8 test images and to detect at least 70% correctly on the provided
labeled dataset. If you do not have enough time, please focus on a submission with clean, well
structured code, rather than on the perfect performance.
Additionally, you are welcome to attach your notes regarding possible next steps for your
detector and ways to improve the data collection of the customer.
